# Performance metrics

-   response time - Time elapsed between start and end of program
-   Throughput - Amount of work done per unit time.

Usually, Throughput $\uparrow$ & response time $\uparrow$

If you replace one core with two slower cores, Throughput $\uparrow$ & response time $\downarrow$

# Execution Time

## Elapsed Time

-   counts everything( disk and memory access, waiting for IO, running other programs etc)
-   Often not good for comparison
-   elapsed time = cpi time + wait time (io, other progs etc)

## CPU time

-   doesn't count waiting for IO or other progs.
-   Can be divided into user CPU time and System CPU time(system calls)
-   CPU time = user time + system time

Elapsed time = user CPU time + system CPU time + user CPU time.

# Performance

> Performance = $\frac{1}{Execution time}$

# Clock Cycles

In modern computers hardware events progress cycle by cycle.

> CPU time = No of Instructions X CPI X Clock cycle time = $\frac{No of Instructions X CPI}{Clock Rate}$

$\frac{seconds}{program}$ = $\frac{cycles}{program}$ X $\frac{seconds}{cycle}$

clock ticks indicate the start and end of the cycles:

-   Cycle time = time between ticks = seconds per cycle
-   clock rate (freq) = cycles per second (1 HZ = 1 cycle/sec)

> CPU execution time = CPU clock cycles for a prog X Clock cycle time

> Execution time = clock cycle time X number of instrs. X avg. CPI.

One can improve performance by:

-   reduce the number of cycles for a program
-   Reduce the clock cycle time or equivalently
-   increase clock rate

# Benchmarking

SPEC: System Performance Evaluation Corporation.

2006 version has 12 integer and 17 FLOPs

Machines are given a score against a baseline machine.

A computer with a score of 400 is 1.5 times faster than one with a score of 600
